March 29th 20025
===

CodeIgniter
---

As the author of Photon, a php framework built around the way I primarily would want to work, I decided to take a moment to check out how CodeIgniter has been going lately. I haven't followed it's development since it left BCIT's hands, and I had no idea how it had changed.  I always really admired CI's "drop in and use" ready to go simplicity, and dedication to making everything just.. kinda work right out of the box.  No composer, no cli tools, no nothing. Just unzip and start coding. There's something to that. A charm that kept me wanting to come back after dealing with a decade of complexity with the more "modern" frameworks. 

Well it turns out that legacy is old news, as I've become painfully aware the new stewardship of Codeigniter, specifically the 4.x releases, have decided to modernize, and most distressingly of all: completely change.  Seems we've taken some inspiration from Laravel, some components from Symfony, even including a basic and rudamentry php language powered inheritence based template engine. I admire what the team at the CodeIgniter Foundation have been doing, and by and large these are good changes to make, but in my view.. this just isn't codeigniter anymore. 

Don't get me wrong, part of the reason I'd been avoiding CI for the past while has been the fact that Composer wasn't natively supported, and you had to jump through some hoops and hack it a bit to integrate it, so that you could include things like Twig or some other managed php package.  Getting 3rd party code into Codeigniter wasn't exactly trivial, you had to manually place things and hook things up yourself. At the same time it forced you to at least consider whether including the extra code was worth the effort, and if it was you at least get a little familiar with bundle you're including.  There was something to that that is lost with being able to just `composer require` whatever you want, whether you wind up using it or not.  

For now, as I'm about 30% done this clients website with the freshesh version of Codeigniter, let me just say this: it's good, it's worth using, I just yearn for it's odl school simplicity that has since been lost. 